docs/administration/installation-by-script.md, before:

# Installation by Script

This script automatically installs EspoCRM as a Docker image with Nginx server and MariaDB database.

## Requirements

1. Operating system:

  * Ubuntu
  * Debian
  * Linux Mint

2. Access via command line.

3. Root or sudo access.

## Installation

Open your server's command line and run the commands:

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh
```

## Installation with SSL/TLS certificate

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl
```

## Installation without prompts

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh -y --ssl --letsencrypt --domain=my-espocrm.com --email=email@my-domain.com
```

## Available options

#### `-y` or `--yes`

Skip confirmation prompts during installation.

#### `--ssl`

Installation with SSL/TLS certificate. Ex. `--ssl`. See [installation modes](#installation-modes).

#### `--letsencrypt`

Installation with a Let's Encrypt free certificate. Ex. `--ssl --letsencrypt`. See [installation modes](#1-lets-encrypt-free-certificate).

#### `--owncertificate`

Installation with an own SSL/TLS certificate. Ex. `--ssl --owncertificate`. See [installation modes](#2-own-ssltls-certificate).

#### `--domain`

Define your domain. Ex. `--domain=my-domain.com` or `--domain=192.168.1.10`.

#### `--email`

Email address for Let's Encrypt certificate. Ex. `--email=email@my-domain.com`.

#### `--clean`

Clean the existing EspoCRM installation and start a new one. This option can be used if you have already installed EspoCRM. Ex. `--clean`.

#### `--public-ip`

Note: For HTTP mode only.

Indicate a public IP address that will be used for EspoCRM installation. Ex. `--public-ip`.

#### `--private-ip`

Note: For HTTP mode only.

Indicate a private (local) IP address that will be used for EspoCRM installation. Ex. `--private-ip`.

#### `--db-root-password`

Define your own MySQL root password instead of the automatically generated one. Ex. `--db-root-password=my-password`.

#### `--db-password`

Define your own MySQL password for EspoCRM installation. Ex. `--db-password=my-password`.

#### `--admin-username`

Define a username of your EspoCRM administrator. Ex. `--admin-username=admin`.

#### `--admin-password`

Define a password of EspoCRM administrator. Ex. `--admin-password=admin-password`.

#### `--command`

Update the `command.sh` for the existing installation. Ex. `--command`.

#### `--backup-path `

A path for the backup. Ex. `--backup-path ="/backup"`.

## Server management

The operation of EspoCRM consists of several services, such as `nginx`, `mariadb`, `daemon`.

In order to update the command tool, see [update the command.sh](#update-the-commandsh).

### Help

In order to display a list of available commands.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh help
```

### Status of services

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh status
```

### Restart services

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restart
```

### Start services

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh start
```

### Build and start services

In order to apply changes in `docker-compose.yml`.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh build
```

### Stop services

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh stop
```

### EspoCRM rebuild

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh rebuild
```

### EspoCRM upgrade

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh upgrade
```

### EspoCRM logs

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh logs
```

### Backup

Create a full backup of EspoCRM.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh backup "BACKUP_DIRECTORY"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh backup /var/www/espocrm-backup`.

### Restore

Restore the backup created by the [backup](#backup) command.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restore "BACKUP_ARCHIVE"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restore "/var/www/espocrm-backup/2024-01-01_142051.tar.gz"`.

### Restore on a fresh server

Restore the backup created by the [backup](#backup) command.

#### 1. Configure the environment

```
wget -N https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --environment
```

#### 2. Restore a backup

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restore "BACKUP_ARCHIVE"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restore "/var/www/espocrm-backup/2024-01-01_142051.tar.gz"`.

#### Troubleshooting

In order to fix the `Error response from daemon: network external not found`, run:

```
sudo bash install.sh --network
```

and then run the `Step 2` again.

### Clean

Delete old and unnecessary files.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh clean
```

### Import SQL dump

Import the database from the SQL dump created by `mariadb-dump`, `mysqldump`, `phpMyAdmin`, etc.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql "PATH/DB.sql"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql "/var/www/espocrm-backup/db.sql"`.

### Import SQL dump for one / several tables

Import the database with enabled `DROP TABLE` statement in the SQL dump created by `mariadb-dump`, `mysqldump`, `phpMyAdmin`, etc.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql --skip-drop "PATH/DB.sql"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql "/var/www/espocrm-backup/db.sql" --skip-drop`.

### Export a database into the SQL dump

Export the database structure and data into a .sql dump.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh export-sql "PATH"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh export-sql "/var/www/espocrm-backup"`.

### Export a database table into the SQL dump

Export the single database table structure and data into a .sql dump.

Notice: the database tables have different names than Entities. Ex. `TargetList` entity has the `target_list` table.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh export-table-sql "PATH" "TABLE_NAME"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh export-table-sql "/var/www/espocrm-backup" account`.

### Certificate generation

Generate a new Let's Encrypt certificate. It can be used to create a certificate for the first time or after a domain change.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh cert-generate
```

### Certificate renewal

Renew an existing Let's Encrypt certificate. It can be used in crontab to automatically renewal.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh cert-renew
```

### Apply a domain change

Applying a domain change described [here](#change-a-domain-name).

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh apply-domain
```

### Enable automatic certificate renewal

Note: This item is relevant only for the Let's Encrypt mode.

Enable automatic certificate renewal. This should be done after moving to another server only.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh cert-cron-add
```

### Disable automatic certificate renewal

Note: This item is relevant only for the Let's Encrypt mode.

Disable automatic certificate renewal. This command should be run after changing the installation mode (ex. to own SSL certificate).

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh cert-cron-remove
```

### Add a cronjob for VoIP Integration connector

Add a cronjob for a VoIP Integration extension after configuring the connector (ex. Asterisk).

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh voip-cron-add CONNECTOR
```

where `CONNECTOR` is your connector ID, ex. `Asterisk`.

### Remove a cronjob for VoIP Integration connector

Remove a cronjob for a VoIP Integration extension after disabling the connector (ex. Asterisk).

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh voip-cron-remove CONNECTOR
```

where `CONNECTOR` is your connector ID, ex. `Asterisk`.

## Data

### Structure

```
.
├── data
│   ├── espocrm
│   ├── mariadb
│   └── nginx
├── docker-compose.yaml
├── command.sh
```

### Storage location

All data are stored at:

```
/var/www/espocrm
```

## Installation modes

### 1. Let's Encrypt certificate

This certificate is a free of charge and can be used by providing an email address.

### 2. Own SSL/TLS certificate

If you need a high-security connection, you have to use your own SSL/TLS certificate. In this mode, EspoCRM will be installed with dummy certificates which should be replaced by real ones.

Post installation steps:

1\. Go to your server directory `/var/www/espocrm/data/nginx/ssl/cert/`.

2\. Replace the following certificates with your own:

- fullchain.pem
- privkey.pem

**Important!**
Your own certificates have to substitute the existing certificates and must have the same names.

3\. Restart nginx server:

```
/var/www/espocrm/restart.sh espocrm-nginx
```

### 3. HTTP mode

This mode is recommended to use only if you don't have a domain name or want to use your IP address as a domain name.

## Changing installed mode

All the actions can be applied to already installed EspoCRM instance.

### From HTTP to Own SSL/TLS certificate

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl --owncertificate --domain=my-espocrm.com
```

### From HTTP to Let's Encrypt certificate

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl --letsencrypt --domain=my-espocrm.com --email=email@my-domain.com
```

### From Own SSL/TLS certificate to Let's Encrypt certificate

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl --letsencrypt --domain=my-espocrm.com --email=email@my-domain.com
```

### Manually (advanced users only)

1\. Stop your existing EspoCRM instance.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh stop
```

2\. Rename your existing directory:

```
mv /var/www/espocrm /var/www/espocrm-old
```

3\. Run the installer in the required mode, e.g. `Let's Encrypt certificate` mode:

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl --letsencrypt --domain=my-espocrm.com --email=email@my-domain.com
```

4\. Copy your existing data to a new installation:

```
rm -rf /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm
rm -rf /var/www/espocrm/data/mariadb
cp -rp /var/www/espocrm-old/data/espocrm /var/www/espocrm/data
cp -rp /var/www/espocrm-old/data/mariadb /var/www/espocrm/data
```

5\. Update your `/var/www/espocrm/docker-compose.yml` file. You have to copy your existing options from `/var/www/espocrm-old/docker-compose.yml` for the services:
- `espocrm-db`
- `espocrm`

6\. Restart services via the command:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restart
```

7\. Login as administrator and update your new `Site URL` in Administration > Settings.

## Logs

### Nginx logs

```
/var/www/espocrm/data/nginx/logs
```

### EspoCRM logs

```
/var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/data/logs
```

## Update the command.sh

In order to load the latest version of the `command.sh`, run the command:

```
wget -N https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --command
```

## Modify PHP settings

This can be achieved by mounting the PHP configuration file and restarting the container.

1\. Login via terminal to your server and open EspoCRM directory `/var/www/espocrm`:

```
cd /var/www/espocrm
```

2\. Create the PHP configuration file:

```
mkdir -p data/php; \
nano data/php/espocrm.ini
```

with the content:

```
expose_php = Off
display_errors = Off
display_startup_errors = Off
log_errors = On
memory_limit=256M
max_execution_time=180
max_input_time=180
post_max_size=30M
upload_max_filesize=30M
date.timezone=UTC
```

then press `Ctrl + 0` and `Ctrl + X`

3\. Mount the created PHP configuration file to the container:

```
sudo nano docker-compose.yml
```

add `./data/php/espocrm.ini:/usr/local/etc/php/conf.d/espocrm.ini` option for `espocrm` container as displayed below:

```
espocrm:
  ...
  volumes:
    - ./data/espocrm:/var/www/html
    - ./data/php/espocrm.ini:/usr/local/etc/php/conf.d/espocrm.ini
  ...
```

then press `Ctrl + 0` and `Ctrl + X`

4\. Restart the container to apply the changes:

```
sudo ./command.sh restart espocrm
```

## Modify Nginx settings

1\. Login via terminal to your server and open EspoCRM directory `/var/www/espocrm`:

```
cd /var/www/espocrm
```

2\. Edit the file `./data/nginx/conf.d/default.conf.template`

```
sudo nano ./data/nginx/conf.d/default.conf.template
```

3\. Restart the container to apply the changes:

```
sudo ./command.sh restart espocrm-nginx
```

## Change a domain name

1\. Login via terminal to your server and open EspoCRM directory `/var/www/espocrm`:

```
cd /var/www/espocrm
```

2\. Find and replace the old domain name with the new one in the file `./docker-compose.yml`

```
sudo nano ./docker-compose.yml
```

Options to change:

1. `NGINX_HOST`.
2. `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_SITE_URL`.
3. `command` under the `espocrm-certbot` service (required only for the letsencrypt mode).

3\. Run the command:

```
sudo ./command.sh apply-domain
```

Note: You have to clear your browser cache for this change to take effect.

## Installer migration from v1 to v2

1\. Export the MySQL database from the corresponding Docker container:

```
sudo mkdir -p /var/www/backup
cd /var/www/backup
sudo docker exec -i espocrm-mysql /usr/bin/mysqldump -uroot -pYOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD espocrm > db.sql
```

Notes:

- Replace the YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD with your MySQL root password.

2\. Copy `data` and `custom` folders from *espocrm* directory:

```
sudo cp -a /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/data /var/www/backup/data
sudo cp -a /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/custom /var/www/backup/custom
```

3\. Install a fresh EspoCRM by a script:

```
cd ~
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --db-root-password=YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD --db-password=YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD --admin-password=YOUR_ADMIN_PASSWORD --clean
```

Notes:

- Replace the YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD with your MySQL root password.
- Replace the YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD with your MySQL espocrm user password.
- Replace the YOUR_ADMIN_PASSWORD with your EspoCRM admin user password.
  
4\. Stop the services:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh stop
```

5\. Replace `data` and `custom` folders in the */var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm* directory with the previously exported ones.

```
sudo rm -rf /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/data
sudo rm -rf /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/custom
sudo cp -a /var/www/backup/data /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm
sudo cp -a /var/www/backup/custom /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm
```

6\. Replace `'host' => 'espocrm-mysql'` line with `'host' => 'espocrm-db'` one in the */var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/data/config-internal.php* file.

7\. Start the services:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh start
```

8\. Import previously exported database to MariaDB container:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql /var/www/backup/db.sql
```

9\. Make a rebuild:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh rebuild
```

10\. Log in to your instance and check if everything is working well.

## Troubleshooting

If after upgrading the EspoCRM instance with the [upgrade](#espocrm-upgrade) command you get error 500 in your instance and there is nothing in the logs that could be related to this error, one of the reasons could be a MySQL version upgrade (upgrades automatically). 

!!! warning

    Make sure that your instance is using MySQL database and not MariaDB one. If it is MariaDB, then the error solution will not work for you in case of using MariaDB database.

To solve this problem and gain access to the instance, follow these steps:

1\. Stop the services:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh stop
```

2\. In */var/www/espocrm/docker-compose.yaml* file, remove the following line:

```
command: --default-authentication-plugin=mysql_native_password
```

3\. Insert the following line in the same place and save changes:

```
command: --mysql-native-password=ON
```

4\. Build and start the services:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh build
```

Commit message:

Added troubleshooting note to the migration section

docs/administration/installation-by-script.md, after:

# Installation by Script

This script automatically installs EspoCRM as a Docker image with Nginx server and MariaDB database.

## Requirements

1. Operating system:

  * Ubuntu
  * Debian
  * Linux Mint

2. Access via command line.

3. Root or sudo access.

## Installation

Open your server's command line and run the commands:

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh
```

## Installation with SSL/TLS certificate

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl
```

## Installation without prompts

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh -y --ssl --letsencrypt --domain=my-espocrm.com --email=email@my-domain.com
```

## Available options

#### `-y` or `--yes`

Skip confirmation prompts during installation.

#### `--ssl`

Installation with SSL/TLS certificate. Ex. `--ssl`. See [installation modes](#installation-modes).

#### `--letsencrypt`

Installation with a Let's Encrypt free certificate. Ex. `--ssl --letsencrypt`. See [installation modes](#1-lets-encrypt-free-certificate).

#### `--owncertificate`

Installation with an own SSL/TLS certificate. Ex. `--ssl --owncertificate`. See [installation modes](#2-own-ssltls-certificate).

#### `--domain`

Define your domain. Ex. `--domain=my-domain.com` or `--domain=192.168.1.10`.

#### `--email`

Email address for Let's Encrypt certificate. Ex. `--email=email@my-domain.com`.

#### `--clean`

Clean the existing EspoCRM installation and start a new one. This option can be used if you have already installed EspoCRM. Ex. `--clean`.

#### `--public-ip`

Note: For HTTP mode only.

Indicate a public IP address that will be used for EspoCRM installation. Ex. `--public-ip`.

#### `--private-ip`

Note: For HTTP mode only.

Indicate a private (local) IP address that will be used for EspoCRM installation. Ex. `--private-ip`.

#### `--db-root-password`

Define your own MySQL root password instead of the automatically generated one. Ex. `--db-root-password=my-password`.

#### `--db-password`

Define your own MySQL password for EspoCRM installation. Ex. `--db-password=my-password`.

#### `--admin-username`

Define a username of your EspoCRM administrator. Ex. `--admin-username=admin`.

#### `--admin-password`

Define a password of EspoCRM administrator. Ex. `--admin-password=admin-password`.

#### `--command`

Update the `command.sh` for the existing installation. Ex. `--command`.

#### `--backup-path `

A path for the backup. Ex. `--backup-path ="/backup"`.

## Server management

The operation of EspoCRM consists of several services, such as `nginx`, `mariadb`, `daemon`.

In order to update the command tool, see [update the command.sh](#update-the-commandsh).

### Help

In order to display a list of available commands.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh help
```

### Status of services

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh status
```

### Restart services

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restart
```

### Start services

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh start
```

### Build and start services

In order to apply changes in `docker-compose.yml`.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh build
```

### Stop services

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh stop
```

### EspoCRM rebuild

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh rebuild
```

### EspoCRM upgrade

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh upgrade
```

### EspoCRM logs

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh logs
```

### Backup

Create a full backup of EspoCRM.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh backup "BACKUP_DIRECTORY"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh backup /var/www/espocrm-backup`.

### Restore

Restore the backup created by the [backup](#backup) command.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restore "BACKUP_ARCHIVE"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restore "/var/www/espocrm-backup/2024-01-01_142051.tar.gz"`.

### Restore on a fresh server

Restore the backup created by the [backup](#backup) command.

#### 1. Configure the environment

```
wget -N https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --environment
```

#### 2. Restore a backup

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restore "BACKUP_ARCHIVE"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restore "/var/www/espocrm-backup/2024-01-01_142051.tar.gz"`.

#### Restore troubleshooting

In order to fix the `Error response from daemon: network external not found`, run:

```
sudo bash install.sh --network
```

and then run the `Step 2` again.

### Clean

Delete old and unnecessary files.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh clean
```

### Import SQL dump

Import the database from the SQL dump created by `mariadb-dump`, `mysqldump`, `phpMyAdmin`, etc.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql "PATH/DB.sql"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql "/var/www/espocrm-backup/db.sql"`.

### Import SQL dump for one / several tables

Import the database with enabled `DROP TABLE` statement in the SQL dump created by `mariadb-dump`, `mysqldump`, `phpMyAdmin`, etc.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql --skip-drop "PATH/DB.sql"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql "/var/www/espocrm-backup/db.sql" --skip-drop`.

### Export a database into the SQL dump

Export the database structure and data into a .sql dump.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh export-sql "PATH"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh export-sql "/var/www/espocrm-backup"`.

### Export a database table into the SQL dump

Export the single database table structure and data into a .sql dump.

Notice: the database tables have different names than Entities. Ex. `TargetList` entity has the `target_list` table.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh export-table-sql "PATH" "TABLE_NAME"
```

An example: `sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh export-table-sql "/var/www/espocrm-backup" account`.

### Certificate generation

Generate a new Let's Encrypt certificate. It can be used to create a certificate for the first time or after a domain change.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh cert-generate
```

### Certificate renewal

Renew an existing Let's Encrypt certificate. It can be used in crontab to automatically renewal.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh cert-renew
```

### Apply a domain change

Applying a domain change described [here](#change-a-domain-name).

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh apply-domain
```

### Enable automatic certificate renewal

Note: This item is relevant only for the Let's Encrypt mode.

Enable automatic certificate renewal. This should be done after moving to another server only.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh cert-cron-add
```

### Disable automatic certificate renewal

Note: This item is relevant only for the Let's Encrypt mode.

Disable automatic certificate renewal. This command should be run after changing the installation mode (ex. to own SSL certificate).

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh cert-cron-remove
```

### Add a cronjob for VoIP Integration connector

Add a cronjob for a VoIP Integration extension after configuring the connector (ex. Asterisk).

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh voip-cron-add CONNECTOR
```

where `CONNECTOR` is your connector ID, ex. `Asterisk`.

### Remove a cronjob for VoIP Integration connector

Remove a cronjob for a VoIP Integration extension after disabling the connector (ex. Asterisk).

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh voip-cron-remove CONNECTOR
```

where `CONNECTOR` is your connector ID, ex. `Asterisk`.

## Data

### Structure

```
.
├── data
│   ├── espocrm
│   ├── mariadb
│   └── nginx
├── docker-compose.yaml
├── command.sh
```

### Storage location

All data are stored at:

```
/var/www/espocrm
```

## Installation modes

### 1. Let's Encrypt certificate

This certificate is a free of charge and can be used by providing an email address.

### 2. Own SSL/TLS certificate

If you need a high-security connection, you have to use your own SSL/TLS certificate. In this mode, EspoCRM will be installed with dummy certificates which should be replaced by real ones.

Post installation steps:

1\. Go to your server directory `/var/www/espocrm/data/nginx/ssl/cert/`.

2\. Replace the following certificates with your own:

- fullchain.pem
- privkey.pem

**Important!**
Your own certificates have to substitute the existing certificates and must have the same names.

3\. Restart nginx server:

```
/var/www/espocrm/restart.sh espocrm-nginx
```

### 3. HTTP mode

This mode is recommended to use only if you don't have a domain name or want to use your IP address as a domain name.

## Changing installed mode

All the actions can be applied to already installed EspoCRM instance.

### From HTTP to Own SSL/TLS certificate

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl --owncertificate --domain=my-espocrm.com
```

### From HTTP to Let's Encrypt certificate

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl --letsencrypt --domain=my-espocrm.com --email=email@my-domain.com
```

### From Own SSL/TLS certificate to Let's Encrypt certificate

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl --letsencrypt --domain=my-espocrm.com --email=email@my-domain.com
```

### Manually (advanced users only)

1\. Stop your existing EspoCRM instance.

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh stop
```

2\. Rename your existing directory:

```
mv /var/www/espocrm /var/www/espocrm-old
```

3\. Run the installer in the required mode, e.g. `Let's Encrypt certificate` mode:

```
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --ssl --letsencrypt --domain=my-espocrm.com --email=email@my-domain.com
```

4\. Copy your existing data to a new installation:

```
rm -rf /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm
rm -rf /var/www/espocrm/data/mariadb
cp -rp /var/www/espocrm-old/data/espocrm /var/www/espocrm/data
cp -rp /var/www/espocrm-old/data/mariadb /var/www/espocrm/data
```

5\. Update your `/var/www/espocrm/docker-compose.yml` file. You have to copy your existing options from `/var/www/espocrm-old/docker-compose.yml` for the services:
- `espocrm-db`
- `espocrm`

6\. Restart services via the command:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh restart
```

7\. Login as administrator and update your new `Site URL` in Administration > Settings.

## Logs

### Nginx logs

```
/var/www/espocrm/data/nginx/logs
```

### EspoCRM logs

```
/var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/data/logs
```

## Update the command.sh

In order to load the latest version of the `command.sh`, run the command:

```
wget -N https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --command
```

## Modify PHP settings

This can be achieved by mounting the PHP configuration file and restarting the container.

1\. Login via terminal to your server and open EspoCRM directory `/var/www/espocrm`:

```
cd /var/www/espocrm
```

2\. Create the PHP configuration file:

```
mkdir -p data/php; \
nano data/php/espocrm.ini
```

with the content:

```
expose_php = Off
display_errors = Off
display_startup_errors = Off
log_errors = On
memory_limit=256M
max_execution_time=180
max_input_time=180
post_max_size=30M
upload_max_filesize=30M
date.timezone=UTC
```

then press `Ctrl + 0` and `Ctrl + X`

3\. Mount the created PHP configuration file to the container:

```
sudo nano docker-compose.yml
```

add `./data/php/espocrm.ini:/usr/local/etc/php/conf.d/espocrm.ini` option for `espocrm` container as displayed below:

```
espocrm:
  ...
  volumes:
    - ./data/espocrm:/var/www/html
    - ./data/php/espocrm.ini:/usr/local/etc/php/conf.d/espocrm.ini
  ...
```

then press `Ctrl + 0` and `Ctrl + X`

4\. Restart the container to apply the changes:

```
sudo ./command.sh restart espocrm
```

## Modify Nginx settings

1\. Login via terminal to your server and open EspoCRM directory `/var/www/espocrm`:

```
cd /var/www/espocrm
```

2\. Edit the file `./data/nginx/conf.d/default.conf.template`

```
sudo nano ./data/nginx/conf.d/default.conf.template
```

3\. Restart the container to apply the changes:

```
sudo ./command.sh restart espocrm-nginx
```

## Change a domain name

1\. Login via terminal to your server and open EspoCRM directory `/var/www/espocrm`:

```
cd /var/www/espocrm
```

2\. Find and replace the old domain name with the new one in the file `./docker-compose.yml`

```
sudo nano ./docker-compose.yml
```

Options to change:

1. `NGINX_HOST`.
2. `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_SITE_URL`.
3. `command` under the `espocrm-certbot` service (required only for the letsencrypt mode).

3\. Run the command:

```
sudo ./command.sh apply-domain
```

Note: You have to clear your browser cache for this change to take effect.

## Installer migration from v1 to v2

!!! note

    If your MySQL container is not running or restarting, check the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

1\. Export the MySQL database from the corresponding Docker container:

```
sudo mkdir -p /var/www/backup
cd /var/www/backup
sudo docker exec -i espocrm-mysql /usr/bin/mysqldump -uroot -pYOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD espocrm > db.sql
```

Notes:

- Replace the YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD with your MySQL root password.

2\. Copy `data` and `custom` folders from *espocrm* directory:

```
sudo cp -a /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/data /var/www/backup/data
sudo cp -a /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/custom /var/www/backup/custom
```

3\. Install a fresh EspoCRM by a script:

```
cd ~
wget https://github.com/espocrm/espocrm-installer/releases/latest/download/install.sh
sudo bash install.sh --db-root-password=YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD --db-password=YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD --admin-password=YOUR_ADMIN_PASSWORD --clean
```

Notes:

- Replace the YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD with your MySQL root password.
- Replace the YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD with your MySQL espocrm user password.
- Replace the YOUR_ADMIN_PASSWORD with your EspoCRM admin user password.
  
4\. Stop the services:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh stop
```

5\. Replace `data` and `custom` folders in the */var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm* directory with the previously exported ones.

```
sudo rm -rf /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/data
sudo rm -rf /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/custom
sudo cp -a /var/www/backup/data /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm
sudo cp -a /var/www/backup/custom /var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm
```

6\. Replace `'host' => 'espocrm-mysql'` line with `'host' => 'espocrm-db'` one in the */var/www/espocrm/data/espocrm/data/config-internal.php* file.

7\. Start the services:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh start
```

8\. Import previously exported database to MariaDB container:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh import-sql /var/www/backup/db.sql
```

9\. Make a rebuild:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh rebuild
```

10\. Log in to your instance and check if everything is working well.

## Troubleshooting

If after upgrading the EspoCRM instance with the [upgrade](#espocrm-upgrade) command you get error 500 in your instance and there is nothing in the logs that could be related to this error, one of the reasons could be a MySQL version upgrade (upgrades automatically). 

!!! warning

    Make sure that your instance is using MySQL database and not MariaDB one. If it is MariaDB, then the error solution will not work for you in case of using MariaDB database.

To solve this problem and gain access to the instance, follow these steps:

1\. Stop the services:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh stop
```

2\. In */var/www/espocrm/docker-compose.yaml* file, remove the following line:

```
command: --default-authentication-plugin=mysql_native_password
```

3\. Insert the following line in the same place and save changes:

```
command: --mysql-native-password=ON
```

4\. Build and start the services:

```
sudo /var/www/espocrm/command.sh build
```
