docs/administration/docker/installation.md, before:

# EspoCRM with Docker

In this article:

- [Installing with Docker](#install-espocrm-with-docker)
- [Installing with Docker Compose](#install-espocrm-with-docker-compose)
- [Installing with Traefik](#install-espocrm-with-traefik)
- [Upgrading](#upgrading)
- [Shutdown and cleanup](#shutdown-and-cleanup-containers)
- [Running a shell](#running-a-shell)
- [Environments](#installation-environments)
- [Config Environments](#config-environments)
- [Image Variants](#image-variants)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)


## Install EspoCRM with Docker

One of the ways to install EspoCRM is by using its official Docker Image. The EspoCRM Container Package contains the Docker image, which incorporates all the required files and dependencies to launch EspoCRM in development or production environments. You can use Docker to run EspoCRM in an isolated environment built with Docker containers.

EspoCRM image requires to run MySQL server:

```
$ docker run --name mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=password -d mysql:8
```

- `mysql` — name of MySQL container,
- `MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=password` — you can change `password` to any password you want,
- `mysql:8` — [MySQL image](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql/tags) version.

Run EspoCRM container:

```
$ docker run --name my-espocrm --link mysql:mysql -d espocrm/espocrm
```

- `my-espocrm` — name of EspoCRM container,
- `mysql:mysql` — name (link) of MySQL container,
- `espocrm/espocrm` — [EspoCRM image](https://hub.docker.com/r/espocrm/espocrm/tags) version.

#### Run EspoCRM container via a specific port:

```
$ docker run --name my-espocrm -p 8080:80 --link mysql:mysql -d espocrm/espocrm
```

Then, access it via `http://localhost:8080` with credentials admin and password.

#### Run EspoCRM via a specific IP or a domain with a port:

```
$ docker run --name my-espocrm -e ESPOCRM_SITE_URL=http://172.20.0.100:8080 -p 8080:80 --link mysql:mysql -d espocrm/espocrm
```

Then, access it via `http://172.20.0.100:8080` with credentials **admin** and **password**.

## Install EspoCRM with Docker Compose

You can use Docker Compose to run EspoCRM in an isolated environment built with Docker containers. Before starting, make sure you have [Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed.

1\. Create an empty directory.

```
$ mkdir espocrm-docker
```

2\. Change into this directory.

```
$ cd espocrm-docker/
```

3\. Create a **`docker-compose.yml`** file:

```
version: '3.8'

services:

  mysql:
    image: mysql:8
    container_name: mysql
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: root_password
      MYSQL_DATABASE: espocrm
      MYSQL_USER: espocrm
      MYSQL_PASSWORD: database_password
    volumes:
      - mysql:/var/lib/mysql
    restart: always

  espocrm:
    image: espocrm/espocrm
    container_name: espocrm
    environment:
      ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PLATFORM: Mysql
      ESPOCRM_DATABASE_HOST: mysql
      ESPOCRM_DATABASE_USER: espocrm
      ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PASSWORD: database_password
      ESPOCRM_ADMIN_USERNAME: admin
      ESPOCRM_ADMIN_PASSWORD: password
      ESPOCRM_SITE_URL: "http://localhost:8080"
    volumes:
      - espocrm:/var/www/html
    restart: always
    ports:
      - 8080:80

  espocrm-daemon:
    image: espocrm/espocrm
    container_name: espocrm-daemon
    volumes:
      - espocrm:/var/www/html
    restart: always
    entrypoint: docker-daemon.sh

  espocrm-websocket:
    image: espocrm/espocrm
    container_name: espocrm-websocket
    environment:
      ESPOCRM_CONFIG_USE_WEB_SOCKET: "true"
      ESPOCRM_CONFIG_WEB_SOCKET_URL: "ws://localhost:8081"
      ESPOCRM_CONFIG_WEB_SOCKET_ZERO_M_Q_SUBSCRIBER_DSN: "tcp://*:7777"
      ESPOCRM_CONFIG_WEB_SOCKET_ZERO_M_Q_SUBMISSION_DSN: "tcp://espocrm-websocket:7777"
    volumes:
      - espocrm:/var/www/html
    restart: always
    entrypoint: docker-websocket.sh
    ports:
      - 8081:8080

volumes:
  mysql:
  espocrm:
```

More about *Installation Environments* you can find [here](#installation-environments).

4\. Build EspoCRM project from directory.

```
$ docker compose up -d
```

5\. Bring up EspoCRM in a web browser. You can use http://localhost as the IP address, and open http://localhost:8080 in a web browser.

### Install EspoCRM with Traefik

You can read the instructions for installing EspoCRM in conjunction with Traefik in the Docker Compose environment [here](https://docs.espocrm.com/administration/docker/traefik/).

### Upgrading

In order to upgrade the container created by the `docker-compose.yml`:

1. Open your EspoCRM container directory.
2. Run the command:

  ```
  $ docker compose pull && docker compose up -d
  ```

Within a few minutes the container will be upgraded to the latest version.

### Shutdown and cleanup containers

The `docker compose down` command removes the containers and default network, but preserves EspoCRM database.

The `docker compose down --volumes` removes the containers, default network, and the EspoCRM database.

### Running a shell

In order to enter the container and view the files, make a rebuild, etc., use the following command (`espocrm` is your container name):

```
$ docker exec -it espocrm bash
```

## Installation Environments

This is one-time environment variables which are using only for the fresh installation. If you need to define configuration options on the container startup, see the [Config Environments](#config-environments).

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PLATFORM

Database platform. The possible values: `Mysql` or `Postgresql`. The default value is `Mysql`.

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_HOST

Database host name for EspoCRM. The default value is `mysql`.

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_NAME

Database name for EspoCRM. The default value is `espocrm`.

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_USER

Database user for EspoCRM. The default value is `root`.

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PASSWORD

Database password for EspoCRM. The default value is `password`.

#### ESPOCRM_ADMIN_USERNAME

User name for an administrator of EspoCRM. The default value is `admin`.

#### ESPOCRM_ADMIN_PASSWORD

User password for an administrator of EspoCRM. The default value is `password`.

#### ESPOCRM_SITE_URL

The URL of EspoCRM. This option is very important for normal operating of EspoCRM. Examples: `http://172.20.0.100:8080`, `http://my-crm.local`.

### Other optional options

The list of possible values and their default values can be found in EspoCRM Administrator panel > Settings.

-	`ESPOCRM_LANGUAGE`
-	`ESPOCRM_DATE_FORMAT`
-	`ESPOCRM_TIME_FORMAT`
-	`ESPOCRM_TIME_ZONE`
-	`ESPOCRM_WEEK_START`
-	`ESPOCRM_DEFAULT_CURRENCY`
-	`ESPOCRM_THOUSAND_SEPARATOR`
-	`ESPOCRM_DECIMAL_MARK`

## Config Environments

These environment variables are using to define configuration parameters of the EspoCRM every time on the container startup. The parameters that can be changed are defined in the `data/config.php` or `data/config-internal.php`.

### Naming

Config environment variables should be converted from the camel-case format. For example:
The `exportDisabled` config option should be converted to `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_EXPORT_DISABLED`.

### Logger

There are additional options to change the `logger`:

- `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_LOGGER_LEVEL: "DEBUG"`
- `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_LOGGER_MAX_FILE_NUMBER: 30`
- `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_LOGGER_PATH: "data/logs/espo.log"`

For more details, visit [documentation](../log.md).

### Allowed types:

#### String
```
ESPOCRM_CONFIG_WEB_SOCKET_URL: "wss://my-espocrm.com:8080"
```

#### Integer
```
ESPOCRM_CONFIG_EMAIL_MESSAGE_MAX_SIZE: 10
```

#### Boolean
```
ESPOCRM_CONFIG_USE_WEB_SOCKET: "true"
```

#### Null
```
ESPOCRM_CONFIG_CURRENCY_DECIMAL_PLACES: "null"
```

## Image Variants

The `espocrm` images come in many flavors, each designed for a specific use case.

- `espocrm:apache`
- `espocrm:fpm`
- `espocrm:fpm-alpine`
- `espocrm:<version>`
- `espocrm:<version>-apache`
- `espocrm:<version>-fpm`
- `espocrm:<version>-fpm-alpine`

## Troubleshooting

### Switching to MySQL 8.4

In MySQL 8.4 there were changes in the authentication procedure, so you may encounter authentication related errors while upgrading EspoCRM. In this case, it is recommended to take the following steps:

1\. Change *authentication plugin* to `caching_sha2_password` for your MySQL users:

Notes: 

- Replace the `YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD` with your MySQL root password.
- Replace the `YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD` with your MySQL espocrm user password.

```
sudo docker exec -i mysql mysql --user=root -p -e "
  ALTER USER IF EXISTS 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED WITH caching_sha2_password BY 'YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD';
  ALTER USER IF EXISTS 'root'@'%' IDENTIFIED WITH caching_sha2_password BY 'YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD';
  ALTER USER IF EXISTS 'espocrm'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED WITH caching_sha2_password BY 'YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD';
  ALTER USER IF EXISTS 'espocrm'@'%' IDENTIFIED WITH caching_sha2_password BY 'YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD';"
```

2\. Remove from *docker-compose.yml* file the following line: `command: --default-authentication-plugin=mysql_native_password`.
   
3\. Restart and build `mysql` container:
   
```
sudo docker stop mysql && sudo docker rm mysql
docker compose up -d --build
```

Commit message:

Added new Docker environment variable: ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PORT

docs/administration/docker/installation.md, after:

# EspoCRM with Docker

In this article:

- [Installing with Docker](#install-espocrm-with-docker)
- [Installing with Docker Compose](#install-espocrm-with-docker-compose)
- [Installing with Traefik](#install-espocrm-with-traefik)
- [Upgrading](#upgrading)
- [Shutdown and cleanup](#shutdown-and-cleanup-containers)
- [Running a shell](#running-a-shell)
- [Environments](#installation-environments)
- [Config Environments](#config-environments)
- [Image Variants](#image-variants)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)


## Install EspoCRM with Docker

One of the ways to install EspoCRM is by using its official Docker Image. The EspoCRM Container Package contains the Docker image, which incorporates all the required files and dependencies to launch EspoCRM in development or production environments. You can use Docker to run EspoCRM in an isolated environment built with Docker containers.

EspoCRM image requires to run MySQL server:

```
$ docker run --name mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=password -d mysql:8
```

- `mysql` — name of MySQL container,
- `MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=password` — you can change `password` to any password you want,
- `mysql:8` — [MySQL image](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql/tags) version.

Run EspoCRM container:

```
$ docker run --name my-espocrm --link mysql:mysql -d espocrm/espocrm
```

- `my-espocrm` — name of EspoCRM container,
- `mysql:mysql` — name (link) of MySQL container,
- `espocrm/espocrm` — [EspoCRM image](https://hub.docker.com/r/espocrm/espocrm/tags) version.

#### Run EspoCRM container via a specific port:

```
$ docker run --name my-espocrm -p 8080:80 --link mysql:mysql -d espocrm/espocrm
```

Then, access it via `http://localhost:8080` with credentials admin and password.

#### Run EspoCRM via a specific IP or a domain with a port:

```
$ docker run --name my-espocrm -e ESPOCRM_SITE_URL=http://172.20.0.100:8080 -p 8080:80 --link mysql:mysql -d espocrm/espocrm
```

Then, access it via `http://172.20.0.100:8080` with credentials **admin** and **password**.

## Install EspoCRM with Docker Compose

You can use Docker Compose to run EspoCRM in an isolated environment built with Docker containers. Before starting, make sure you have [Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed.

1\. Create an empty directory.

```
$ mkdir espocrm-docker
```

2\. Change into this directory.

```
$ cd espocrm-docker/
```

3\. Create a **`docker-compose.yml`** file:

```
version: '3.8'

services:

  mysql:
    image: mysql:8
    container_name: mysql
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: root_password
      MYSQL_DATABASE: espocrm
      MYSQL_USER: espocrm
      MYSQL_PASSWORD: database_password
    volumes:
      - mysql:/var/lib/mysql
    restart: always

  espocrm:
    image: espocrm/espocrm
    container_name: espocrm
    environment:
      ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PLATFORM: Mysql
      ESPOCRM_DATABASE_HOST: mysql
      ESPOCRM_DATABASE_USER: espocrm
      ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PASSWORD: database_password
      ESPOCRM_ADMIN_USERNAME: admin
      ESPOCRM_ADMIN_PASSWORD: password
      ESPOCRM_SITE_URL: "http://localhost:8080"
    volumes:
      - espocrm:/var/www/html
    restart: always
    ports:
      - 8080:80

  espocrm-daemon:
    image: espocrm/espocrm
    container_name: espocrm-daemon
    volumes:
      - espocrm:/var/www/html
    restart: always
    entrypoint: docker-daemon.sh

  espocrm-websocket:
    image: espocrm/espocrm
    container_name: espocrm-websocket
    environment:
      ESPOCRM_CONFIG_USE_WEB_SOCKET: "true"
      ESPOCRM_CONFIG_WEB_SOCKET_URL: "ws://localhost:8081"
      ESPOCRM_CONFIG_WEB_SOCKET_ZERO_M_Q_SUBSCRIBER_DSN: "tcp://*:7777"
      ESPOCRM_CONFIG_WEB_SOCKET_ZERO_M_Q_SUBMISSION_DSN: "tcp://espocrm-websocket:7777"
    volumes:
      - espocrm:/var/www/html
    restart: always
    entrypoint: docker-websocket.sh
    ports:
      - 8081:8080

volumes:
  mysql:
  espocrm:
```

More about *Installation Environments* you can find [here](#installation-environments).

4\. Build EspoCRM project from directory.

```
$ docker compose up -d
```

5\. Bring up EspoCRM in a web browser. You can use http://localhost as the IP address, and open http://localhost:8080 in a web browser.

### Install EspoCRM with Traefik

You can read the instructions for installing EspoCRM in conjunction with Traefik in the Docker Compose environment [here](https://docs.espocrm.com/administration/docker/traefik/).

### Upgrading

In order to upgrade the container created by the `docker-compose.yml`:

1. Open your EspoCRM container directory.
2. Run the command:

  ```
  $ docker compose pull && docker compose up -d
  ```

Within a few minutes the container will be upgraded to the latest version.

### Shutdown and cleanup containers

The `docker compose down` command removes the containers and default network, but preserves EspoCRM database.

The `docker compose down --volumes` removes the containers, default network, and the EspoCRM database.

### Running a shell

In order to enter the container and view the files, make a rebuild, etc., use the following command (`espocrm` is your container name):

```
$ docker exec -it espocrm bash
```

## Installation Environments

This is one-time environment variables which are using only for the fresh installation. If you need to define configuration options on the container startup, see the [Config Environments](#config-environments).

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PLATFORM

Database platform. The possible values: `Mysql` or `Postgresql`. The default value is `Mysql`.

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_HOST

Database host name for EspoCRM. The default value is `mysql`.

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PORT

Database port for EspoCRM. The default value is empty.

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_NAME

Database name for EspoCRM. The default value is `espocrm`.

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_USER

Database user for EspoCRM. The default value is `root`.

#### ESPOCRM_DATABASE_PASSWORD

Database password for EspoCRM. The default value is `password`.

#### ESPOCRM_ADMIN_USERNAME

User name for an administrator of EspoCRM. The default value is `admin`.

#### ESPOCRM_ADMIN_PASSWORD

User password for an administrator of EspoCRM. The default value is `password`.

#### ESPOCRM_SITE_URL

The URL of EspoCRM. This option is very important for normal operating of EspoCRM. Examples: `http://172.20.0.100:8080`, `http://my-crm.local`.

### Other optional options

The list of possible values and their default values can be found in EspoCRM Administrator panel > Settings.

-	`ESPOCRM_LANGUAGE`
-	`ESPOCRM_DATE_FORMAT`
-	`ESPOCRM_TIME_FORMAT`
-	`ESPOCRM_TIME_ZONE`
-	`ESPOCRM_WEEK_START`
-	`ESPOCRM_DEFAULT_CURRENCY`
-	`ESPOCRM_THOUSAND_SEPARATOR`
-	`ESPOCRM_DECIMAL_MARK`

## Config Environments

These environment variables are using to define configuration parameters of the EspoCRM every time on the container startup. The parameters that can be changed are defined in the `data/config.php` or `data/config-internal.php`.

### Naming

Config environment variables should be converted from the camel-case format. For example:
The `exportDisabled` config option should be converted to `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_EXPORT_DISABLED`.

### Logger

There are additional options to change the `logger`:

- `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_LOGGER_LEVEL: "DEBUG"`
- `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_LOGGER_MAX_FILE_NUMBER: 30`
- `ESPOCRM_CONFIG_LOGGER_PATH: "data/logs/espo.log"`

For more details, visit [documentation](../log.md).

### Allowed types:

#### String
```
ESPOCRM_CONFIG_WEB_SOCKET_URL: "wss://my-espocrm.com:8080"
```

#### Integer
```
ESPOCRM_CONFIG_EMAIL_MESSAGE_MAX_SIZE: 10
```

#### Boolean
```
ESPOCRM_CONFIG_USE_WEB_SOCKET: "true"
```

#### Null
```
ESPOCRM_CONFIG_CURRENCY_DECIMAL_PLACES: "null"
```

## Image Variants

The `espocrm` images come in many flavors, each designed for a specific use case.

- `espocrm:apache`
- `espocrm:fpm`
- `espocrm:fpm-alpine`
- `espocrm:<version>`
- `espocrm:<version>-apache`
- `espocrm:<version>-fpm`
- `espocrm:<version>-fpm-alpine`

## Troubleshooting

### Switching to MySQL 8.4

In MySQL 8.4 there were changes in the authentication procedure, so you may encounter authentication related errors while upgrading EspoCRM. In this case, it is recommended to take the following steps:

1\. Change *authentication plugin* to `caching_sha2_password` for your MySQL users:

Notes: 

- Replace the `YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD` with your MySQL root password.
- Replace the `YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD` with your MySQL espocrm user password.

```
sudo docker exec -i mysql mysql --user=root -p -e "
  ALTER USER IF EXISTS 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED WITH caching_sha2_password BY 'YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD';
  ALTER USER IF EXISTS 'root'@'%' IDENTIFIED WITH caching_sha2_password BY 'YOUR_ROOT_PASSWORD';
  ALTER USER IF EXISTS 'espocrm'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED WITH caching_sha2_password BY 'YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD';
  ALTER USER IF EXISTS 'espocrm'@'%' IDENTIFIED WITH caching_sha2_password BY 'YOUR_ESPOCRM_DB_PASSWORD';"
```

2\. Remove from *docker-compose.yml* file the following line: `command: --default-authentication-plugin=mysql_native_password`.
   
3\. Restart and build `mysql` container:
   
```
sudo docker stop mysql && sudo docker rm mysql
docker compose up -d --build
```
