docs/extensions/outlook-integration/email.md, before:

# Outlook Integration. Email

!!! note

    Before proceeding to this article it's recommended to [set up the integration](setting-up.md).

OAuth IMAP and SMTP authentication is available in the [Outlook Integration](https://www.espocrm.com/extensions/outlook-integration) extension. It provides a secure authentication for Microsoft 365 and Outlook.com accounts. With this extension, you won’t need to store your Outlook password in EspoCRM.

Optionally, the extension allows the use of the Microsoft Graph API for sending emails.

In this article, both Microsoft 365 and Outlook.com will be referred to as *Outlook*.

## Setting-up email account

Assuming that the administrator has already set up the Outlook integration.

Create a Personal or Group Email Account. The the you create, specify IMAP and SMTP parameters for Outlook. IMAP host: `outlook.office365.com` or `imap-mail.outlook.com`;  SMTP host: `smtp.office365.com`. Leave the *Password* fields empty for both IMAP and SMTP. Then, save the record.

After that, the *Outlook* panel should appear on the right. You need to click *Connect* button. A popup will show up asking for a user consent.

!!! note

    You need to be logged in to Outlook as a user to which an email address of the current email account record belongs. For example, if you configure an email account for *example@outlook.com*, you need to log in to Outlook as a user who has *example@outlook.com* email address.

After that, you can test IMAP connection and sent a test email to make sure everything works fine.

!!! note

    If during IMAP testing STARTTLS doesn't work, try the SSL/TLS option.

## Recommendations

Recommendations for setting up an email account if you encounter errors when connecting to SMTP:

1. Ensure you are not signed into `office.com`.
2. Clear cookies and other site data.
3. Go to email account and connect to Outlook.
4. Click Test Connection button, check if successful.
6. Click Send Test Email button, check if successful.

## Graph API

*As of v1.6.*

Requires EspoCRM v9.1 or greater.

An administrator can enable sending emails via Graph API. Under Administration > Integrations > Outlook, check *Send emails via Graph API*.

!!! important

    When the Graph API is enabled for sending, it's not possible to use the same Espo email account record for both sending emails and receiving emails. Separate email accounts for the same email address should be created. One – for sending (via Graph API), another – for receiving (classic IMAP). Then, connect both accounts to Microsoft using the *Connect* button.

!!! note

    We recommended to use the standard SMTP for email sending. Use Graph API only if necessary. Please note that we do not offer support for configuring email sending through the Graph API.

Commit message:

Add API permission for the Graph API (Outlook) (#905)
* Update email.md

* Update email.md

docs/extensions/outlook-integration/email.md, after:

# Outlook Integration. Email

!!! note

    Before proceeding to this article it's recommended to [set up the integration](setting-up.md).

OAuth IMAP and SMTP authentication is available in the [Outlook Integration](https://www.espocrm.com/extensions/outlook-integration) extension. It provides a secure authentication for Microsoft 365 and Outlook.com accounts. With this extension, you won’t need to store your Outlook password in EspoCRM.

Optionally, the extension allows the use of the Microsoft Graph API for sending emails.

In this article, both Microsoft 365 and Outlook.com will be referred to as *Outlook*.

## Setting-up email account

Assuming that the administrator has already set up the Outlook integration.

Create a Personal or Group Email Account. The the you create, specify IMAP and SMTP parameters for Outlook. IMAP host: `outlook.office365.com` or `imap-mail.outlook.com`;  SMTP host: `smtp.office365.com`. Leave the *Password* fields empty for both IMAP and SMTP. Then, save the record.

After that, the *Outlook* panel should appear on the right. You need to click *Connect* button. A popup will show up asking for a user consent.

!!! note

    You need to be logged in to Outlook as a user to which an email address of the current email account record belongs. For example, if you configure an email account for *example@outlook.com*, you need to log in to Outlook as a user who has *example@outlook.com* email address.

After that, you can test IMAP connection and sent a test email to make sure everything works fine.

!!! note

    If during IMAP testing STARTTLS doesn't work, try the SSL/TLS option.

## Recommendations

Recommendations for setting up an email account if you encounter errors when connecting to SMTP:

1. Ensure you are not signed into `office.com`.
2. Clear cookies and other site data.
3. Go to email account and connect to Outlook.
4. Click Test Connection button, check if successful.
6. Click Send Test Email button, check if successful.

## Graph API

*As of v1.6.*

Requires EspoCRM v9.1 or greater.

*Mail.Send* API permission should be enabled for the Azure application in the API Permissions tab.  

An administrator can enable sending emails via Graph API. Under Administration > Integrations > Outlook, check *Send emails via Graph API*.

!!! important

    When the Graph API is enabled for sending, it's not possible to use the same Espo email account record for both sending emails and receiving emails. Separate email accounts for the same email address should be created. One – for sending (via Graph API), another – for receiving (classic IMAP). Then, connect both accounts to Microsoft using the *Connect* button.

!!! note

    We recommended to use the standard SMTP for email sending. Use Graph API only if necessary. Please note that we do not offer support for configuring email sending through the Graph API.
