docs/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up.md, before:

# Outlook Integration. Setting-up for Administrator

* [Integration](#integration)
* [Access control](#access-control)
* [Sync scheduling](#sync-scheduling)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Integration

Go to the Administration > Integrations > Outlook. Check *Enabled* checkbox.

* You will obtain *Client ID* and *Client Secret* in Azure Active Directory admin center.
* You will need to copy *Redirect URI* to Azure Active Directory admin center.

![Integration](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/1.png)

**1\.** Go to [aad.portal.azure.com](https://aad.portal.azure.com).

**2\.** Create an application.

Follow Azure Active Directory > App registration > Register an application.

![App registration](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/2.png)

Select needed *Supported account types*.

Copy *Redirect URI* from EspoCRM. Note, that type should be set to `Web`.

![App registration](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/3.png)

**3\.** Copy *Application (client) ID* from Azure app to EspoCRM.

![Client ID](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/4.png)

![Client ID](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/5.png)

**4\.** Create a secret for Azure app. Copy it to EspoCRM.

![Secret](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/6.png)

![Secret](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/7.png)

If the *Never* option is not available, choose *In 2 years*. In this case you will need to re-generate the secret in 2 years.

![Secret](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/8.png)

![Secret](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/9.png)

**5\.** Save Outlook integration credentials in EspoCRM.

**6\.** Grant required permissions for Azure app.

!!! note

    This step is required for Office365 users. For Outlook, it usually works without this step, but it might be needed either.

Click *Api Permissions* on the left panel. Click *Add a permission*. Click *Microsoft Graph*. Click *Delegated permissions*. Then, use search to find the needed permissions and enable them.

Permissions that need to be enabled:

* offline_access – mandatory;
* Calendars.ReadWrite – optional – for calendar sync;
* Contacts.ReadWrite – optional – for contacts pushing;
* IMAP.AccessAsUser.All – optional – for email fetching;
* SMTP.Send – optional – for email sending.

![Permissions](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/10.png)

After adding the above listed API permissions, click Grant Admin Consent for (your organization).


## Access control

**Important**: By default, the regular users don’t have access to Outlook Calendar integration. Administrator needs to enable access in Roles. The following scopes need to be enabled:

* External Accounts;
* Outlook Calendar;
* Outlook Contacts.

![Roles](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/roles.png)


## Sync scheduling

Sync is run by the scheduled job *Outlook Calendar Sync*. By default, it is executed every 10 minutes. You can change scheduling at Administration > Scheduled Jobs > Outlook Calendar Sync.

## Troubleshooting

Check whether the scheduled job is running Administration > Scheduled Jobs > Outlook Calendar Sync > Log.

Check EspoCRM log at `data/logs` directory. You can also set the [log mode](../../administration/troubleshooting.md#enabling-debug-mode-for-a-logger) to `DEBUG` level to obtain more info from the log.

## Office 365 configuration

### Enabling SMTP

For Office 365 you might need to enable SMTP AUTH for specific mailboxes. See how to do it in the [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/authenticated-client-smtp-submission#use-the-microsoft-365-admin-center-to-enable-or-disable-smtp-auth-on-specific-mailboxes).

Commit message:

Update setting-up.md regarding admin consent
I ran into an error with the Outlook extension regarding admin consent. In my case, I had to grant consent to the organization after adding a new user even though I had already granted admin consent in the past. The new user received a 403 error after clicking the 'Connect' button in EspoCRM. I spent hours working on this until I finally tried the admin consent button again, which immediately fixed the issue. I filed a bug with Microsoft, but I doubt they will do anything about this.

docs/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up.md, after:

# Outlook Integration. Setting-up for Administrator

* [Integration](#integration)
* [Access control](#access-control)
* [Sync scheduling](#sync-scheduling)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Integration

Go to the Administration > Integrations > Outlook. Check *Enabled* checkbox.

* You will obtain *Client ID* and *Client Secret* in Azure Active Directory admin center.
* You will need to copy *Redirect URI* to Azure Active Directory admin center.

![Integration](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/1.png)

**1\.** Go to [aad.portal.azure.com](https://aad.portal.azure.com).

**2\.** Create an application.

Follow Azure Active Directory > App registration > Register an application.

![App registration](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/2.png)

Select needed *Supported account types*.

Copy *Redirect URI* from EspoCRM. Note, that type should be set to `Web`.

![App registration](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/3.png)

**3\.** Copy *Application (client) ID* from Azure app to EspoCRM.

![Client ID](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/4.png)

![Client ID](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/5.png)

**4\.** Create a secret for Azure app. Copy it to EspoCRM.

![Secret](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/6.png)

![Secret](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/7.png)

If the *Never* option is not available, choose *In 2 years*. In this case you will need to re-generate the secret in 2 years.

![Secret](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/8.png)

![Secret](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/9.png)

**5\.** Save Outlook integration credentials in EspoCRM.

**6\.** Grant required permissions for Azure app.

!!! note

    This step is required for Office365 users. For Outlook, it usually works without this step, but it might be needed either.

Click *Api Permissions* on the left panel. Click *Add a permission*. Click *Microsoft Graph*. Click *Delegated permissions*. Then, use search to find the needed permissions and enable them.

Permissions that need to be enabled:

* offline_access – mandatory;
* Calendars.ReadWrite – optional – for calendar sync;
* Contacts.ReadWrite – optional – for contacts pushing;
* IMAP.AccessAsUser.All – optional – for email fetching;
* SMTP.Send – optional – for email sending.

![Permissions](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/10.png)

After adding the above listed API permissions, click Grant Admin Consent for (your organization). **Important**: It may be necessary to Grant Admin Consent again if new users are added to the Microsoft 365 tenant even if the app registration shows admin consent has been granted to the tenant. Attempting to connect a new user to the Outlook Extension in EspoCRM may result in a 403 error from Microsoft Graph, which includes a message about invalid credentials. However, the same error applies to both situations: invalid credentials and lack of admin consent.


## Access control

**Important**: By default, the regular users don’t have access to Outlook Calendar integration. Administrator needs to enable access in Roles. The following scopes need to be enabled:

* External Accounts;
* Outlook Calendar;
* Outlook Contacts.

![Roles](../../_static/images/extensions/outlook-integration/setting-up/roles.png)


## Sync scheduling

Sync is run by the scheduled job *Outlook Calendar Sync*. By default, it is executed every 10 minutes. You can change scheduling at Administration > Scheduled Jobs > Outlook Calendar Sync.

## Troubleshooting

Check whether the scheduled job is running Administration > Scheduled Jobs > Outlook Calendar Sync > Log.

Check EspoCRM log at `data/logs` directory. You can also set the [log mode](../../administration/troubleshooting.md#enabling-debug-mode-for-a-logger) to `DEBUG` level to obtain more info from the log.

## Office 365 configuration

### Enabling SMTP

For Office 365 you might need to enable SMTP AUTH for specific mailboxes. See how to do it in the [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/exchange/clients-and-mobile-in-exchange-online/authenticated-client-smtp-submission#use-the-microsoft-365-admin-center-to-enable-or-disable-smtp-auth-on-specific-mailboxes).
